Now we're gonna get into, you may never
have to do use these kind of hooks, right?
Everything that I showed you up until now,
there's a likely chance that you're gonna
use at some point in your React career,
if you end up writing enough React.
The ones after this, 50-50 at best
that you'll ever have to use these.
The next two, useMemo and
useCallback, one, are more or
less the same thing with
a slightly different API.
And two, specifically,
they are performance optimizations.
So let's get into useMemo.
I have to look these up, by the way,
these ones from here on out,
I do not use them enough
that I can remember them.
So I have to look them up every single
time, which is why I have my notes here.
Okay, so memo.
So here is a performance problem for you.
Here we're gonna talk a little
bit about Fibonacci sequences.
But we're doing it because
explicitly they're extremely
computationally expensive, right?
So you can replace your Fibonacci
with SuperExpensiveThingToDo, right?
This could be like crypto hashes or
something like that,
something that's just gonna require
a lot of computational power.
In this case, I made an intentionally
bad Fibonacci sequence.
Please render, thank you.
I made an intentionally
bad Fibonacci sequence so
that it takes forever to process.
And also it's just doing excessive
recursion, is what this does.
In fact,
that would be a better thing to call,
this function is excessive recursion,
okay?
So I have two things here happening.
I have my state of what
the number is here.
So the Fibonacci of 1 is 1,
if I click 1, Fibonacci is 2 of 2.
And notice that at first this is pretty
good, but then once we start getting into
bigger and bigger numbers,
this will start getting very slow.
Once we're getting into the 40s,
yeah, here we go.
So notice if I click this,
it takes a while to update, right?
And why is that?
It's literally adding one to itself this
many times, that's what Fibonacci does.
So that takes a while.
But we have a problem here, is that the
user may want to use this other very cool,
red-green clicker here
while this is computing.
So how would you handle that?
Well, we can use something called useMemo,
To kind of help along with that.
So if I click + here, notice that
I can't click on this right now.
But notice that if I do click on
this right now, it does work, right?
So why is it working that way?
Well, useMemo is helping me along here.
If I did not do that,
if I did this instead,
const fib = fibonacci(num), like this.
And let's just have
the start at 25 right now.
So if I kept this up until,
I don't know, 30 or something like that.
Okay, so now it's in a state where
now it's expensive to call Fibonacci.
If I click on useMemo, notice how
long it takes me to change over.
Right, because what is it doing here?
It's recalculating it every
single time that it renders.
That's a problem, right?
Cuz I want both of these
things to stay responsive.
So that's what useMemo is here.
You can use it to say, hey,
I do need you to run this, right?
I do need to know what the Fibonacci
of 38 is right now, right?
But I also need users to be able to
click on my red-green clicker here.
Does that make sense?
It's a very niche use case.
So one, hopefully you're not calculating
the Fibonacci on every re-render, right?
But you can imagine probably cases
where I have to go do something and
it's expensive, right?
I have to go run this web
crypto hash here, but
I don't wanna hold up
the rest of my React app.
And then I don't have to do it very often.
I only have to recalculate this only
when the user increments the number.
It's gonna be the same number every
single time after that, right?
The Fibonacci of 38 is always
going to be the same thing.
Therefore, I can say,
hey, calculate this, but
then keep it as long as
number doesn't change here.
This number array works just
like useEffect, it's like hey,
only recalculate this when num changes.
So let's make this again.
40, right?
So this will take forever to re-render.
But now, notice I can click on this as
much as I want and it goes back and forth,
no problem.
Okay, so, first thing, I've shown you
a very powerful performance tool,
do not go and use and
abuse this everywhere.
Because, what happens if later I
start expecting this to re-render?
It's like, why is the Fibonacci
not re-rendering, right?
This makes no sense.
The state's updating, things are
happening, why is that not re-rendering?
And they have to go in and track down as
like, this person used useMemo in here,
that's why this is not re-rendering.
You run into this new class of bugs of
why is my state not changing when I
expect it to?
It's not obvious, right?
So again, with performance problems,
I've kind of reiterated this several times
throughout all the courses
that I've taught here,
is have a performance problem first
before you solve a performance problem.
Because almost always you
will solve the wrong problem.
You're thinking this is
definitely gonna be a problem.
And one,
it wasn't ever going to be a problem.
And two, you created a new problem for
yourself.
So don't do that.
So that's my advice for useMemo is,
only use useMemo when you
actually have a performance problem that
you're explicitly solving at the moment.
Yeah.
>> So,
I'm trying to understand it really well.
So to state in pure English what useMemo
is doing, is it's kind of saying like
you said, is it accurate to say we're
maybe adding a hook or something?
Or using that to say, don't render
this unless the dependency array,
or some value in
the dependency arrays change?
>> Yeah, let me tweak your phrase in
there, is don't recalculate this.
>> Don't recalculate.
>> Don't run this function, right?
You're giving it a function of,
if you need to recalculate fib here
because num changed, run this, right?
Otherwise, just use what it was last time,
right?
Cuz again, num didn't change between
my click here and here, right?
But isGreen did, and
every time isGreen changes,
it re-renders the entire component, right?
But because num didn't change,
you just say, don't re-render this,
just leave it as is, it's fine.
Unlike if we were being quite silly,
we could put isStillGreen,
I don't know, something like that.
And then this could be isGreen, and
this could be dependent on isGreen.
And then here down here
we would do isStillGreen.
Now, why the hell would you do that?
You wouldn't, this is objectively
a horrible idea, right?
But I just wanted to show you that
you can memoize anything, right?
This is just a function that's
going to return something, right?
But by wrapping this in a function
instead of just putting fibonacci here,
If you do this,
it's gonna calculate it, right?
Because you're actively
invoking that function.
If you put this inside of a function,
this isn't gonna get
calculated until this little
function that we created gets run.
So with useMemo, you're just
providing it a function of, hey,
anytime num gets changed, run this,
and that'll be the value of fib.
I don't know,
does that help clarify a little bit?
Okay, cool.
Don't do this, that's upsetting.
I don't know why I did that.
>> Well, ternary computational power.
>> [LAUGH] I saw a code base
that someone was working on,
and it's like they memoized everything.
They actually wrote a ESLint rule that's
like, you must memoize all of your state.
No, don't, React is really fast,
even old devices handle this just fine.
There's no reason to make your life so
much harder.
>> Actually, I have one further
understanding statement.
>> Sure.
>> Is it essentially that useMemo, then,
like you said,
we don't recalculate these values?
Is that then essentially the code level,
not the DOM?
We're not talking about render,
we're talking about in our code.
We're not gonna update these values,
because then updating a value would
trigger a refresh of the DOM, a rerender
of the DOM, because something had changed.
>> Well, basically, this MemoComponent,
it's gonna have to re-render a bunch,
right?
Because, especially if this is a popular
thing for people to click on, this useMemo
example, every time I click on this,
this function gets run, 100% of times.
And then sometimes, even still,
even when I'm not clicking on it,
you don't know when React is going to
choose to rerender your components, right?
So this function is gonna get run a lot.
And basically, it's saying, I know
this is gonna have to get run a lot.
But as long as num is not changing,
do not calculate this again.
Just use what it used to be,
because I know what it used to be.
Reliably, the Fibonacci of 40 is
always going to be this, right?
So despite the fact that MemoComponent
function is running frequently,
don't calculate this unless this.
Don't run this function, use what it
used to be, so that you don't have to.
>> Okay, and so maybe that's why you
brought up the pure state of this.
The fact that given to the same inputs,
you always have the same output.
If there were for some reason,
some dependent input,
then this wouldn't be valid.
Because maybe useMemo wouldn't know that
something had changed when it should have,
or something like that.
>> You would just put that in here, right?
So you can have multiple things in here.
>> Okay, cuz of your dependency,
right, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool, thank you.
>> Yep, good questions, yeah, Mark.
>> When would we use this instead
of the other pattern you showed,
which is useEffect dependency
array when something changes?
>> Yeah.
So useEffect is for causing side effects,
so this is a good question.
useEffect is for side effects, so that's
like requesting something from an API.
It's basically like render my function,
and then go find something for me and
bring it back, and
then let's rerender it again.
Or posting to an API,
maybe you're doing your analytics there.
Or you're reaching out to something else,
whether that's a browser API,
an API, something like that, right?
For that, you provide it with an array
of dependencies of this is when you
would need to do this again, right?
The user committed some sort of action,
so call my telemetry again.
Or the user typed something into my
search bar, run typeahead again, right?
So it's basically saying,
I'm causing effects based on
something else that's happening.
And then you're providing it with
when do I wanna do this again?
That's useEffect in a nutshell.
useMemo is like, I have some data that's
computationally extremely expensive for
me to acquire.
Basically, I know what the number is, but
turning number into the Fibonacci answer,
I know is extremely expensive.
And I only wanna do it when I have to.
So in other words,
useMemo is purely for performance, 100%,
it's just performance optimization.
You don't use it for anything else ever.
Yeah, I feel okay in saying that.
Don't use it for anything else ever,
otherwise you're abusing the tool.
useEffect, it's much more
generally applicable,
it's like I have something that I need
to do outside of my normal rendering.
You typically wouldn't use useEffect for
performance optimizations.
I think that's fair to say.
I'll have to think more about that one.
Yeah, you have a question?
>> This explanation may not make sense,
but it helps in my brain.
useMemo has to exist because we're using
functional components which have closure
in the call stack and stuff.
And you're kind of forcing it
to do something it wouldn't.
Like a function would redefine
a variable every time,
and we're saying, please, don't do that.
>> Yeah, I think that's fair to say.
You're trying to move something out
of the pop path here, basically.
Okay.
I think that's fair.
Let's go on to useCallback, right, yeah.
>> I think you covered this yesterday, but
why are the hooks always placed
on the top of the function?
>> They don't have to be,
but it's a really good idea.
For me, it's just habit, so that I look
at the top of the function component,
and I can see here's all the hooks
that Brian's currently using.
But the only thing that you have to,
is an absolute must,
is you gotta keep your hooks out
of if statements and for loops.
Or while loops or
anything that has some sort of
variable amount of times
that it might be called.
By putting in an if statement, it might
only be called one through zero, right?
Which is bad, or if I call it in a for
loop, it might be called ten times,
it might be called five times, right?
Now, I've seen people do dumb things like,
well,
I know if I do for let i = 0,
i is less than 10, right?
i++, and they try and get cute with this
and make an object or an array of these.
Just don't, just put ten lines of code.
I don't know, if you were making 100
hooks at the same time, I don't know,
just make one hook that that's an array,
right?
Instead of trying to make 100,
yeah, anyway, it's dumb.
I feel okay saying never
put hooks in if statements,
never put hooks in array or
in loops of any kind.
There's a different way you could rethink
the problem that would lead to using one
hook instead of ten hooks.
Okay, any other questions, yeah.
>> I was gonna say I've seen people,
too, use objects.
Like if you have ten useStates,
then you just switch to an object.
>> Yeah, I'm like use reducer or
something like that, yeah, totally.